Before we end this demo I also want to cover firewall,
and we come over to Cortana and type firewall,
and it defaults to allow an app through Windows Firewall.
Well I'm going to come down to Windows Defender Firewall.
Instead of just Windows Firewall it's now called Windows Defender Firewall,
and note while this user interface has been around for years,
we're in the classic Control Panel here.
Firewall hasn't been migrated to the Settings app yet.
Now there's a lot we can talk about with Firewall,
the different profiles, but that gets beyond our scope right now,
so what I will say is that you want to be absolutely
sure that Defender is enabled, and you'll notice this is a UAC protected link.
Turn Windows Defender Firewall on or off.
You want to make sure it's on for all of your profiles.
Essentially, just to quickly say this,
the location profiles determine collections of firewall rules.
First of all,
if you're not exactly sure what a firewall is it's a piece of
software or potentially a piece of hardware that inspects
traffic coming into your machine,
and potentially even going out of your machine bidirectional,
and will screen it against rules to allow or deny those traffic flows.
If you belong to an Active Directory domain you have the domain profile,
and then the first time you light up a network connection,
Wi-Fi or wired, you can go private or public.
Private would be for a home network that has less restrictive rules.
Public would be certainly when you're in an airport,
or a coffee shop, or some public area where you want maximum protection,
okay?
So that's turning the firewall on or off.
That bit about allowing an app or feature allows you to choose,
this is an alphabetized list of different
applications installed on your machines,
different Windows services,
and you can selectively enable or disable the
communication based on your profiles.
A little bit of a clunky interface, so what you do in the enterprise,
when you're managing Windows Firewall globally is that
you want the Advanced Firewall console.
If you type advanced fire let's see if that helps.
I'm not getting the auto-complete to hit what I want.
Let me go into Start.
Okay, finally.
I typed advanced in the start, and it says,
Windows Defender Firewall with Advanced Security.
Now you'll want to search the Pluralsight library to get training on
this because it's a learning curve unto itself.
You can create rules for inbound traffic, as well as outbound traffic.
There's a whole bunch of predefined rules to make it easier.
If you know you need to be able to ping a machine to test it's
connectivity there's a pre-built rule for that.
You can actually apply these policies in Group Policy to make
it easier to set Windows Defender Firewall policies globally
across a bigger group of computers.
Please don't just decide, well,
I'm going to disable Windows Defender Firewall on all my endpoints
because it makes administration more difficult.
Please don't make that mistake.
In my professional experience it's much better to spend the
time figuring out what your traffic flows are,
and what traffic should be allowed, and deploy those rules via group policy,
or if you're working with individual machines you can
use the advanced security console. You don't want to turn off something so important as a firewall.